
RAPUMA QUICK START GUIDE
-----------------------------------------
Rapuma comes with a couple example projects that are used to demonstrate what it can do and also test the system when revisions are made. Currently, there are two example projects. The first demonstrates Rapuma's most basic project configuration with a simple small Scripture book, the book of James in English. To run this example, with your terminal open in a directory where you don't mind a project being created, type the following:

    rapuma example MBJAS

If everything was installed correctly, what you should end up with is the Gnome Document Previewer displaying a PDF of the Book of James that Rapuma just rendered using XeTeX. You will also see that there is a folder in your current directory named KYUM. In that folder is another one named ENG-LATN-JAS. That is the folder where the actual publishing project resides. Use your file explorer to look around and see what happened. I'm not going to tell here what just happened, otherwise it wouldn't be a "Quick Start" would it.

The second example, which is vastly more complex, can be run in the same way by typing this:

    rapuma example KYUM

With this, you will get similar results as the last time. However, this is the Book of Mark in the Kayah language, set in the Burmese script. What it took to do that was much more than the English book of James, however, Rapuma is able to do both.

If you would like to try a command, you could render the Book of Mark with this:

    rapuma component KYU-MYMR-MRK usfm mrk -e

No doubt you will notice that not much happened in the terminal. This is because Rapuma is just calling up the already existing PDF file that was created when the book was rendered the first time. There are times when this is useful. However, to make Rapuma re-render this book component you will need to add one extra command such as follows:

    rapuma component KYU-MYMR-MRK usfm mrk -e -f

This time you will see more activity on the screen. However, unless you actually edited the file or made a change to one of the format settings, the PDF will be identical to the first one.

The third example is much like the MBJAS example, except with this one, multiple components are processed. Like before, use a command like this to run the example.

    rapuma example KJV

This concludes our Quick Start Guide. Hopefully, in the not so distant future there will be more tutorial available.
